docs/opencode-integration.md, before:

# opencode Integration Guide

This guide explains how to configure [opencode](https://opencode.ai) to use Dedalus Labs models through this proxy.

## Quick Setup

1. **Start the proxy server**

   ```bash
   export DEDALUS_API_KEY=your-api-key
   dedalus-proxy
   ```

2. **Configure opencode**

   Create or edit your `opencode.json` configuration file:

   ```json
   {
     "provider": {
       "dedalus": {
         "name": "Dedalus Labs",
         "api_key_env": "OPENAI_API_KEY",
         "base_url": "http://localhost:8000/v1"
       }
     },
     "model": {
       "editor": {
         "provider": "dedalus",
         "model": "gpt-4o"
       },
       "small": {
         "provider": "dedalus",
         "model": "gpt-4o-mini"
       }
     }
   }
   ```

3. **Run opencode**

   The proxy handles all OpenAI-compatible requests and forwards them to Dedalus Labs.

## Environment Variables

| Variable | Required | Description |
|----------|----------|-------------|
| `DEDALUS_API_KEY` | Yes | Your Dedalus Labs API key (for the proxy) |
| `OPENAI_API_KEY` | Yes* | Required by opencode/client (can be any dummy value like `dummy`); the proxy ignores it |

*opencode requires an API key environment variable to be set, even though the proxy doesn't use it.

## Available Models

Use these model names in your opencode configuration:

| Model | Provider |
|-------|----------|
| `gpt-4o` | OpenAI |
| `gpt-4o-mini` | OpenAI |
| `gpt-4-turbo` | OpenAI |
| `gpt-4` | OpenAI |
| `gpt-3.5-turbo` | OpenAI |
| `claude-3-opus` | Anthropic |
| `claude-3-sonnet` | Anthropic |
| `claude-3-haiku` | Anthropic |
| `gemini-1.5-pro` | Google |
| `gemini-1.5-flash` | Google |

You can also use full model paths like `openai/gpt-4o` or `anthropic/claude-3-sonnet`.

## Troubleshooting

### Connection Refused

**Symptom**: `Connection refused` error when opencode tries to connect.

**Solution**: Ensure the proxy is running:

```bash
curl http://localhost:8000/health
# Should return: {"status":"ok"}
```

If using Docker, check the container is running:

```bash
docker ps | grep dedalus-proxy
```

### Authentication Error

**Symptom**: `Invalid API key` or `401 Unauthorized` error.

**Solution**: Verify your `DEDALUS_API_KEY` is set correctly:

```bash
# Check if the variable is set
echo $DEDALUS_API_KEY

# Restart the proxy with the correct key
export DEDALUS_API_KEY=your-actual-api-key
dedalus-proxy
```

### Model Not Found

**Symptom**: Error about invalid or unavailable model.

**Solution**: Use one of the supported model names listed above, or use the full Dedalus model path:

```json
{
  "model": "openai/gpt-4o"
}
```

### Slow Responses

**Symptom**: Requests take a long time to complete.

**Solution**: 

1. Enable streaming for faster perceived response time:
   ```json
   {
     "stream": true
   }
   ```

2. Check your network connection to Dedalus Labs API.

3. Try a faster model like `gpt-4o-mini` or `claude-3-haiku`.

### Viewing Logs

Enable debug logging to see detailed request/response information:

```bash
dedalus-proxy --log-level debug
```

For structured JSON logs (useful for log aggregation):

```bash
dedalus-proxy --json-logs
```

## Docker Setup

If running the proxy in Docker:

```bash
docker run -d \
  --name dedalus-proxy \
  -e DEDALUS_API_KEY=your-api-key \
  -p 8000:8000 \
  dedalus-proxy
```

Then configure opencode to connect to `http://localhost:8000/v1`.

### Network Considerations

If opencode runs in a different container or on a different machine:

- **opencode in Docker on macOS/Windows**: Use `http://host.docker.internal:8000/v1`
- **opencode in Docker on Linux**: Use the host IP address or Docker network service name
- **opencode on another machine**: Use the host machine's IP address instead of `localhost`

Commit message:

fix: add SSE keepalive pings to prevent connection drops during large responses
When writing large files via tool calls, HTTP connections could be closed
by clients, proxies, or load balancers due to apparent inactivity while
waiting for the model to generate content.

Changes:
- Add SSE headers (Cache-Control, Connection, X-Accel-Buffering) to prevent
  buffering and keep connections alive
- Implement keepalive ping mechanism that sends SSE comments (': ping') every
  15 seconds (configurable via STREAM_KEEPALIVE_INTERVAL) when no data arrives
- Apply keepalive to both regular streaming and Google models with tools
- Add tests for SSE headers and keepalive behavior
- Document the new environment variable and troubleshooting steps

docs/opencode-integration.md, after:

# opencode Integration Guide

This guide explains how to configure [opencode](https://opencode.ai) to use Dedalus Labs models through this proxy.

## Quick Setup

1. **Start the proxy server**

   ```bash
   export DEDALUS_API_KEY=your-api-key
   dedalus-proxy
   ```

2. **Configure opencode**

   Create or edit your `opencode.json` configuration file:

   ```json
   {
     "provider": {
       "dedalus": {
         "name": "Dedalus Labs",
         "api_key_env": "OPENAI_API_KEY",
         "base_url": "http://localhost:8000/v1"
       }
     },
     "model": {
       "editor": {
         "provider": "dedalus",
         "model": "gpt-4o"
       },
       "small": {
         "provider": "dedalus",
         "model": "gpt-4o-mini"
       }
     }
   }
   ```

3. **Run opencode**

   The proxy handles all OpenAI-compatible requests and forwards them to Dedalus Labs.

## Environment Variables

| Variable | Required | Description |
|----------|----------|-------------|
| `DEDALUS_API_KEY` | Yes | Your Dedalus Labs API key (for the proxy) |
| `OPENAI_API_KEY` | Yes* | Required by opencode/client (can be any dummy value like `dummy`); the proxy ignores it |

*opencode requires an API key environment variable to be set, even though the proxy doesn't use it.

## Available Models

Use these model names in your opencode configuration:

| Model | Provider |
|-------|----------|
| `gpt-4o` | OpenAI |
| `gpt-4o-mini` | OpenAI |
| `gpt-4-turbo` | OpenAI |
| `gpt-4` | OpenAI |
| `gpt-3.5-turbo` | OpenAI |
| `claude-3-opus` | Anthropic |
| `claude-3-sonnet` | Anthropic |
| `claude-3-haiku` | Anthropic |
| `gemini-1.5-pro` | Google |
| `gemini-1.5-flash` | Google |

You can also use full model paths like `openai/gpt-4o` or `anthropic/claude-3-sonnet`.

## Troubleshooting

### Connection Refused

**Symptom**: `Connection refused` error when opencode tries to connect.

**Solution**: Ensure the proxy is running:

```bash
curl http://localhost:8000/health
# Should return: {"status":"ok"}
```

If using Docker, check the container is running:

```bash
docker ps | grep dedalus-proxy
```

### Authentication Error

**Symptom**: `Invalid API key` or `401 Unauthorized` error.

**Solution**: Verify your `DEDALUS_API_KEY` is set correctly:

```bash
# Check if the variable is set
echo $DEDALUS_API_KEY

# Restart the proxy with the correct key
export DEDALUS_API_KEY=your-actual-api-key
dedalus-proxy
```

### Model Not Found

**Symptom**: Error about invalid or unavailable model.

**Solution**: Use one of the supported model names listed above, or use the full Dedalus model path:

```json
{
  "model": "openai/gpt-4o"
}
```

### Slow Responses

**Symptom**: Requests take a long time to complete.

**Solution**: 

1. Enable streaming for faster perceived response time:
   ```json
   {
     "stream": true
   }
   ```

2. Check your network connection to Dedalus Labs API.

3. Try a faster model like `gpt-4o-mini` or `claude-3-haiku`.

### Large File Writes Failing or Stalling

**Symptom**: When asking the model to write large files, the response gets stuck or the connection drops.

**Solution**: 

The proxy includes automatic keepalive pings to prevent connection timeouts during long-running responses. If you're still experiencing issues:

1. Increase the keepalive interval if your network has strict timeout requirements:
   ```bash
   STREAM_KEEPALIVE_INTERVAL=10 dedalus-proxy
   ```
   The default is 15 seconds. Lower values send more frequent pings.

2. If using a reverse proxy (nginx, Cloudflare, etc.), ensure buffering is disabled. The proxy sends `X-Accel-Buffering: no` header, but you may need additional configuration.

3. Check if your client or intermediate proxies have connection timeout settings that need adjustment.

### Viewing Logs

Enable debug logging to see detailed request/response information:

```bash
dedalus-proxy --log-level debug
```

For structured JSON logs (useful for log aggregation):

```bash
dedalus-proxy --json-logs
```

## Docker Setup

If running the proxy in Docker:

```bash
docker run -d \
  --name dedalus-proxy \
  -e DEDALUS_API_KEY=your-api-key \
  -p 8000:8000 \
  dedalus-proxy
```

Then configure opencode to connect to `http://localhost:8000/v1`.

### Network Considerations

If opencode runs in a different container or on a different machine:

- **opencode in Docker on macOS/Windows**: Use `http://host.docker.internal:8000/v1`
- **opencode in Docker on Linux**: Use the host IP address or Docker network service name
- **opencode on another machine**: Use the host machine's IP address instead of `localhost`
